Standard star with the Fiber MOS
--------------------------------

:Mode: Standard star with the FIBER MOS
:Usage: Offline, Online
:Key: MegaraMosStdStar
:Recipe: :class:`~megaradrp.recipes.calibration.mosstdstar.MOSStandardRecipe`
:Recipe input: :class:`~megaradrp.recipes.scientific.calibration.MOSStandardRecipeInput`
:Recipe result: :class:`~megaradrp.recipes.scientific.calibration.MOSStandardRecipeResult`


This observing mode includes the required actions to obtain those calibration
images needed to correct for the variation in the response of the system along
the spectral direction. The difference between this mode and the two precedent
observing modes is that in this case the spectrophotometric standard star is
observed through one of the robotic positioners of the Fiber-MOS subsystem.

As in Standard star with the IFUs observing modes, the calibration is performed
by observing one or several spectrophotometric stars with the same instrument
configuration that for the scientific observations. Depending on the number of
standard stars observed and the weather conditions two different types of
calibration could be achieved, absolute or relative. In the case of the former
calibration an aperture correction should be applied to take into account the
possible flux losses from the standard stars when observed through one of the
~1.6-arcsec-wide robotic positioners.


Requirements
++++++++++++
This mode requires having the focal-plane cover configured, the instrument
shutter open, to configure the VPH mechanism to select the grating to be used,
to set the instrument mode to Fiber MOS, to move the focusing mechanism to the
position pre-defined for the specific VPH of choice, to move one of the robotic
positioners to the position of the spectrophotometric standard star (other
positioners could be also moved if needed) and to expose a certain time and to
readout the detector in a series of exposures, being this series the image set
containing the spectral energy distribution of the spectrophotometric standard
star.

This observing mode could still be carried out with one of the sides of the
focal-plane cover closed. However, as the (commonly rather bright)
spectrophotometric standard star is the only object of interest in the field,
the other positioners would not be observing scientific targets, so the level
of cross-talk between these and the positioner devoted to the standard star
should be negligible. Thus, the use of the focal-plane cover, although
considered, is not recommended for this specific observing mode.

In order to place the robotic positioner(s) on the corresponding target(s) a
set of input catalogues previously generated by the observer using MOPSS
(MEGARA Observing Preparation Software Suite) are needed.

Products
++++++++
Standard star image sets are to be obtained only as part of the routine
calibration activities performed by the observer that are needed for processing
data for scientific exploitation.


Recipe, inputs and results
++++++++++++++++++++++++++

.. autoclass:: megaradrp.recipes.calibration.mosstdstar.MOSStandardRecipe
      :members:
